---
layout: post
title: Just Ship
published: false
---

A few months ago while talking with a group of students and young engineers I
mentor, I realized that most of them hadn't actually shipped anything. Even after
my repeated discussions with them about the importance of shipping, practically
no one shipped anything. Yes, zero!

I was quite shocked that they chose to blatantly disregard my advice when they
were very eager to follow most other suggestions. Then I realized, they didn't
have a ready example to draw inspiration from.

> [ToolBomber](https://toolbomber.com) was started as a means to showcase how to
> prototype simple ideas in
hours, not days.

I wanted my mentees to get a real sense of what they can achieve given a few
hours of commitment and the skills they already possess.

## Psychology

Today's society has a seriously depleted attention span and motivation due to
extreme exposure to cheap dopamine apps. Hence, long-term commitment to anything
is nearly impossible. I designed the task of building micro-tools to align with
the current mindset and also to prove what's possible with the leverage they
have.

## Today's Tools

Most tools we have today, like Vercel, CDNs, KV stores, and a ton of libraries,
were virtually nonexistent a decade or two ago, and building a fully contained
prototype was significantly more difficult.

Now, with most of these powerful tools, we can build the first version in hours,
if not minutes.

Being able to prototype ideas quickly provides an amazing rush. The idea is to
capitalize on that rush and keep building.

> It needs to be fun to be sustainable.

## More is Good

Most startups have less than a 2% chance of success. These ideas may have even
lower odds. However, the point of shipping something every day transforms the
builder.

Many newbies build for the sake of technology, which is seldom a strategy that
works, but it's challenging to convince an engineer otherwise unless they
experience failure themselves.

## Fail Fast

This is essentially an opportunity to fail—fail without consequences—and that
too, many times, so that they become exceptionally good at shipping by the time
they find an idea worth risking their serious time.

Spending a few hours and getting an idea out to see how it works is enjoyable.
It's play. And doing it many times is the easiest way to get good at it.

The apps that I build with ToolBomber share a similar ethos. I mostly build them
to test new stacks, libraries, or just to experience the thrill of building
something fun.

## Hack Together

I write this for those who want to pursue the game of shipping and become really
good at it. I have created a private Telegram group with a small group of
shippers to hone their skills and improve. If you're interested in being part of
the group and **ship**, message me on [Telegram](https://t.me/jikkujose) with
one project you have shipped and commitment to ship more.

## What to Ship?

Build something fun, simple, and maybe even dumb. Don't overthink the what, how,
and why. **Just Ship**. Show us what you've got, receive feedback, iterate, and
build more. It's that simple.
