---
layout: post
title: Just Ship
published: true
---

A few months ago, while conversing with a group of students and young engineers
I mentor, I discovered that most of them hadn't actually shipped any projects.
Despite numerous discussions emphasizing the importance of shipping, virtually
none of them had taken action. The count was zero!

I was astonished that they had chosen to ignore this advice when they seemed
eager to follow most other suggestions. Then it dawned on me: they lacked a
tangible example to draw inspiration from.

> [ToolBomber](https://toolbomber.com) was created to demonstrate how to
> prototype simple ideas in hours, not days.

I aimed to give my mentees a genuine understanding of what they could accomplish
with just a few hours of dedication and the skills they already possessed.

## Psychology

Today, attention spans and motivation are severely diminished due to excessive
exposure to addictive apps. As a result, long-term commitment to side projects
is nearly impossible. I designed the task of building micro-tools to align with
this mindset and achieve tangible results without a fundamental change of
behaviour; since I don't think fighting with current high stimulus
entertainments is winnable.

## Today's Tools

Many of the tools we use today, such as Vercel, CDNs, KV stores, and numerous
libraries, didn't exist a decade or two ago. How we can imagine and build today
would have looked like magic a few years ago.

Now, with the help of these powerful tools, the first version of an idea can be
created in mere hours or even minutes.

The ability to prototype ideas quickly generates an exhilarating rush. The goal
is to capitalize on that excitement and maintain the momentum of building.

> It has to be fun, to be sustainable.

## More is Good

Most startups have less than a 2% chance of success, and these ideas may have
even lower odds. However, the act of shipping something every day transforms the
creator.

Many beginners build for the sake of technology, which rarely proves to be a
successful strategy. It's difficult to convince an engineer otherwise unless
they experience failure firsthand.

## Fail Fast

This approach presents an opportunity to fail—fail without consequences—and to
do so repeatedly, allowing them to become exceptionally skilled at shipping by
the time they discover an idea worth investing significant time.

Spending a few hours to bring an idea to life and see how it works is enjoyable.
It's play. Repeating this process is the simplest way to become proficient at
it.

The apps I create with ToolBomber share a similar philosophy. I mostly build
them to test new stacks, libraries, or just to experience the thrill of
constructing something entertaining.

## Hack Together

I write this for those who wish to master the art of shipping. I have
established a [Telegram group](https://t.me/ToolBombers) with a small community of shippers to
refine their skills and improve. If you're interested in joining the group and
committing to **ship**, message me on [Telegram](https://t.me/jikkujose) with
one project you have shipped and your dedication to shipping more.

## What to Ship?

Construct something fun, simple, and perhaps even silly. Don't overthink the
what, how, and why. **Just Ship**. Share your creations, receive feedback,
iterate, and build more. It's that straightforward.
