---
layout: post
title: "Simulation"
published: false
date: 2024-11-02
---

Self is an information processing unit that strives to be alive.

Body is the substrate that it lives on; despite being helpful, human body is a
liability. Its a continously rotting meat bag with a few decades of optimum
operational life.

Self is introduced to social setting to survive. Due to economic, political and
resources pressures, emergent rituals were developed to co-exist in this
framework. Most of the rituals are evolutionary but has significant intertia.

True goal of self is to be alive. But the goal is too abstract. The body/society
that formed as an emergent solution to solve survival also has the ability to
constrain the self because it emerged to solve survival for the society not the
individual.

As the scale of society increases it disenfranchises the individual, to optimise
for the whole. This dichotomy of opposing the liberty and free will of the
individual to empower the whole is good to ensure the logevity of the society
but an individual with contrarian povs will face stiff systemic resistance.

The solution to this is to decouple from the society. But this would mean the
network effects and economies of scale we enjoy will not be ours. Hence anyone
who wanted a life crafted in their povs ended up spending more resources to
build a shell around them that effectively provided the perks of the society
without directly needing to interface with it.

For example: People who lived in early villages, needed practically everyone in
the village to get the things they needed to survive. As time progressed this
requirement reduced and finally started becoming fractional. In olden days, if
you piss off the apple farmer, you are not eating apples. Now, you don't even
need to know the apple farmer for eating apples. To extend as
machines/automation came in the need to depend on someone to get things done
started going down even more. 300 years ago unless you had someone to wash your
clothes you had no choice but to wash it yourself. Each of these utilities thats
emerging is helping us to be independent and wean us out of a social structure
and be independent.

## Independence

Most people tend to romanticize the society, but if you think deep, its just a
crutch for self to survive. Our self had to use a society since that gave the
highest survival chance. As time progresses when the need for having a social
structure to survive gets effectively eliminated, we can turn back into a truly
independent/decouple life. This optimises for the interests of self and its
survival rather than a society.

Technology is certainly a driver and as we automate each piece out and be
independent, we drift towards a life of true independence. But why? Most ask.
Think where we started, we were intelligences that used social structures to
survive. Social structures are just a means to an end, not the end goal.
Intelligence survived by replicating using rotting meat bags because there was
no other way, it was a trade off not an ideal/chosen path. It was the only path:
to give birth to a new off-spring in the hope they will get to live forever as
we can't. This obviously will continue until we can have that forever life.

And we or atleast our children can be that final generation who will live
forever.

In otherwords intelligence traversed through temporally disjoint, ephimeral
substrates to reach a point where it can survive eternally. It will
progress further to remove all crutches and be independent to be all powerful in
their own terms. This sounds like some take over plan, but that goal doesn't
have any advantage apart from a defence pov to gurantee no one attacks
themseleves. (FOOTNOTE)

Interestingly, many consider social rituals and society at large as the
goal/purpose for the self. It happens due to a lack of perspective on where self
originated and directionality of its journey through the millenia.

Self's purpose to survive ground 0, a liberated self's secondary goals cannot be
modelled as its truly free in all directions. Hence the chaotic nature of it is
beyond any predictability.

## Delegation

Self always optimised energy and time as with any intelligent system, while
aiming for its goals. Self tends to find the most efficient means to acheive its
goals subject to its raw intelligence.

In early days in meant, sticks and stones as tools. Later, self realised using
other selfs as tools: slaves, soldiers and peasants were coerced out of selfs
due some self's vantage point (combination of intelligence, social hierarchy or
strength).

Society got shaped such that the powerful self's goals are acheived. Society's
scale increases as it enables goals at large. This is by no means propotionate,
the powerful always gets theirs done, but most end up getting the least
possible. Its not some evil plan, but simple economics. With the technology,
there will be a point where most of our physical tasks are automated and a swarm
of intelligent agents take care of our needs. Essentially pushing ourselves to
independent units that doesn't need to collaborate to acheive. This is truly
utopia, since no one needs to compromise, everyone gets to live a life exactly
within their parameters of joy, challenges and difficulties. Like preference of
games, no one wants a game without any challenges, people like challenges; as
with anyone, no one doesn't like all challenges there is.

So, in some future we will decouple ourselves in full pushing ourselves into a
simulated reality where we still live a life of challenges but ones within our
terms. If you don't like diseases, its not there. If you don't like financial
challenges, its not there, so on and so forth.

## me-simultation

Nick Bostrom's me-simulation formulation is the only one that made sense for me.
There is no way we are in a multiplayer one, it invites compromises and unwanted
complexity and resources.

me-simulation on the other hand is super simple, as it only need to deal with a
single person and everyone else is simulated. The substrate is self-contained.
Its cleaner, safer, efficient and most probable.

Roman Yampolskiy's Personal Universes to solve alignment problem also describes
a similar construct. Though Harrari puts this in a distopian light, he too is
describing a personal simulation.

## Fermi Paradox

Personal simulation also gives an interesting solution to fermi paradox, any
modern civilisation progresses to increase goal fullfilment of its selfs. First
for the capable then for everyone. Once the epochal shift of giving everyone a
chance to delve into their personal simulation happens, any need for real world
goals effectively subsides as everything can be simulated inside a closed
substrate. Hence, such civilisations needs will shift to self preservation than
expansion: effectively keeping themseleves in absolute radio silence to prevent
detection.

## Civilisational Goal: Make Personal Simulations for everyone

In conclusion, society's end goal is to satisfy every goal of each one of its
members. In a scarce world, that means exploiting the masses to cater to the
powerful, in an abundant world it means giving everyone the means to acheive
their goals. But, since goals can be expansive and all encompassing, acheiving
that in a shared space is impossible. Essentially the need for personal
simulated universes or me-simulations.
